[Instrumental Music]
Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast coming to you from the QI Offices in Covenant Garden.
My name is Dan Schreiber and I am sitting here with Anna Chazinski, Andrew Hunter Murray and James Harkin and once again we have gathered around the microphones with our four favorite facts from the last seven days and in a particular order, here we go, starting with you Chazinski.
My fact this week is that Tibet is suffering from a shortage of butter sculptors.
Yeah, this is people who make sculptures out of butter.
When you say "shortage" it means they must have some of them still. They do have some but they must need a lot of them.
I'm not sure that's the case because if you had a month, you could start a shortage. It would have just been extremely severe shortage.
I think that's when it's been called an absence.
Yes, yeah.
So butter sculpting in Tibet is very popular and it goes back a really long way and it's part of their Buddhist celebrations.
And so in the biggest Tibetan Buddhist festival, which is called the Monlang Festival, then the largest day of it is like the day when they light all these butter lamps and they make all these butter sculptures.
And it's a way of celebrating butter and butter's victories.
Yeah, because these sounds a bit like butter.
It's exactly because of that.
I don't believe it's not butter.
I wanted to laugh and I was laughing really hard inside there.
It's got all the form of it.
It's got everything. It's got everything.
The reason I didn't laugh at it is because there is no such thing as I can't believe it's not butter anymore.
That's true, they changed the name.
What?
Yeah, they changed the name to "I can't believe it's so good for everything."
I'm not sure it is good for everything, is it?
No.
No, it's not as versatile as their claiming.
But they might have been building houses.
It's good for building statues.
Yeah.
Well, I can't believe it's sort of butter.
Yeah, maybe.
I don't think that's the reason you didn't laugh.
No.
It's a supplementary fact.
Actually, I think it is.
Because when you said it, that was what was going through my brain rather than on a great joke.
So they specifically use yak butter as opposed to cow milk.
Is that different?
Is it more like normal?
Yes, it's exactly.
It's a solid substance.
Yeah, it's a lot thicker.
A yak butter generally is used for most things in Tibet.
I was talking to my auntie, Bettina.
She lived in Tibet.
And I, as a child, I went to Tibet in 1994.
And it was my friend's birthday up there.
And we had a yak cheese cake.
It was made from yak butter and yak cheese.
We couldn't get the knife into it.
It was so hard.
The chef was experimenting with new uses of yak for these sudden western meals.
So they also had yak pizza that they were trying to work on as well.
Which was using yak butter as well.
But yeah, so.
When you say it's used for most things, I think that is a bit like I can't believe it's not butter saying it can be used for everything.
Slightly butter.
I mean, do you ride on yak butter?
Well, according to Bettina, my auntie, she said that it would be used in place of, say, blue tack.
So I guess, like, yak tack.
What?
And blue yak.
Blue yak, sorry.
Do they use it medicinally?
They use it as moisturizer.
Yeah, and they also, my auntie said people used to use it and she did as well as a barrier because the winds would be so painfully cold as they were hitting your face.
That it was a sort of, like, masking device to stop the cold wind from something like a balaclava.
Yeah, exactly.
It's like a moisturiser balaclava.
Sometimes though, a lot of a slice of bread will blow into your face and I'll just stick that.
And then if another one hates you to go away.
Turn into a sandwich.
They use it for their main tea as well.
Yak butter tea is traditional drinks.
Is it nice?
I didn't have it when I was up there.
I think I've had butter tea.
Is it for mint?
I'm sure there's some fermenting process that goes on.
Yeah.
And then they do the rancid or a bit.
Well, they put yak poo in it because the way they do, they do.
Because the way they get the tea is off a block of tea.
What they do, they give you some yak butter tea and they go, "Would you like poo with that?"
Or just half a poo.
But we're the same because I always, when I have a cavity, I put a bit of a cow manure in there.
Yeah, it's a bit.
What it says is that to bind the tea particles together because they will be...
Shopping, scraping the tea off a compressed block of tea and it would be all bitty in too much.
It feels like your auntie is setting you up for a really good practical joke when you go there.
Yeah, that's true.
She gave me so much information.
And she said as well, by the way, her name, Bettina, is an anagram of Tibetan.
Which is quite a cool.
Yeah, and she said just yesterday, they moved house.
They have a folding table that they had in Tibet when they were living there.
And they haven't unpacked it for many years.
It still smells of yak butter.
Wow.
Because they used to just have blobs of it on there.
I don't know why.
So Bossa has been used medicinally in the past, hasn't it?
And they used to think I was reading this in a book called A History of Food.
And it didn't give a specific day, it just said until quite recently.
It was thought that if you put a pot of butter next to a sick person, it would absorb their disease.
And they would recover.
You do get people putting butter on bruises.
That's a thing.
Is it?
Yeah.
The ancient Egyptians used it.
Okay.
They would put a bit of butter on a bruise with some powdered mummy.
Really?
Yeah.
Why were they using powdered mummy?
I think they just had a lot of mummy to use up.
Right.
I've got so much rhizmary, but we'll have rhizmary and everything.
I was reading an article by the interviewed Elaine Kasrova, who's a historian of butter.
And she thinks that it was like a magical, holy thing, because no one really knew how it was made.
So I mean, so you would get some milk and you put it in some animal skin or something like that.
And then the right kind of bacteria would have to be there for it to churn and turn into butter.
But quite often it wouldn't work.
And people wouldn't know why it wasn't working.
And so sometimes it works, sometimes it didn't.
And they thought it was magical for that reason.
Oh, really?
Oh, well, that's so in Iceland.
I think the Icelandic people used to pray to the god of blacksmiths for better butter,
because in a similar way they didn't know how it was made and they thought it was like gold.
Because it just had that gold, goldy shine.
And so they thought, let's pray to the guys responsible for metal because he'll sort out our butter shortages.
I can't believe it's not better.
Yeah, you're really pushing this joke.
Do you want it to be a surprise to one of these moments?
Do you know where else they have the big butter statuary industry is?
Massive in America?
You know, I didn't know about this.
No, I don't know about this.
And everyone in America watching this will know absolutely about it.
Butter is huge.
Butter statues.
Oh, butter statues.
Sorry, right.
Stay farms and state fairs and things.
And they always have massive butter sculptures.
And they had, well, there's one woman who just recently retired.
She did it for 50 years in Iowa every year.
She just made it cow out of butter.
Cool.
And they really used the butter as well.
Would you want to eat or for mass statues?
No, not all of it.
For mass statues.
Really?
In between.
So they don't have to use another, you know.
It's not.
100 kilos of butter to make her cow.
Well, it started in the 1800s in America where they would make things,
not just out of butter, but out of lots of foodstuffs.
So they were making loads and loads of foods because the land was so good for growing.
And there was one where they have this thing called serial architecture,
where someone made a palace out of corn and grass and stuff like that.
They made a Liberty Bell out of oranges.
And they made a life-size night out of prunes.
It's not a weird childhood fantasy world.
I think it's to kind of show up that they've got all this amazing, all these truths.
Yeah. We've got so many prunes. We can waste some of them by making them into a night.
Yeah.
Yeah, because the person who started it, I think, was a woman called Caroline Short Brooks,
who was this really famous sculptor in America.
And so she displayed her sculptures at the world fair.
She has this one called Dreaming Eye Length,
which if you look it up, it's really beautiful.
How did she get them to the world fair?
Which she's sculpted down there.
Or she's got them there. And the problem was, she wanted to use her kind of butter.
And she had to get it all the way to Europe, because welfare was in Paris, I think.
But the problem was, she couldn't keep it cool.
So she didn't find a boat with enough ice in it.
Yeah. So she eventually found one that took her ages.
She got it onto this boat, got all the butter over,
like a hundred kilos of butter, got there, and the welfare had already finished.
No!
Oh!
I thought you said she showed it at the world fair.
It must have been enough. It was a different one.
Did it go off?
Yeah, the fair.
It's not the butter that she had once she.
Well, I don't know what they did with it once she got there.
I can't believe it's not bitter.
Anyway.
You know, yak milk should actually be called neck milk.
Why is that?
Because the yak is a male.
Yeah.
The neck is the female.
Really?
You can't milk a yak.
No, you can't.
But if you think you've milked a yak, that's not milk.
You can't.
That's not milk.
You can prank.
Time for fact number two.
And that is my fact.
My fact this week is that you can email any one of the 70,000 trees in Melbourne, Australia.
Okay.
Cool.
An individual email to anyone of those 70,000 trees.
Have you done so?
I have not.
No.
I'd rather think you should have done.
Well, what have people had though?
So what happens is this was a project that was set up in 2013.
The idea was that every single tree got its own ID number because they wanted to.
If you lived near this tree and you sought being vandalised or you saw that it was in any way dying,
you could report this tree by sending an email to the tree and then someone would pick it up.
Report the tree.
It just sounds like the tree is in trouble.
I just don't think it's in trouble.
Well, yeah.
Do they call it tree mail or?
They should do, yeah.
But as far as I know, they don't.
No.
And this is a project called the Urban Forest Visual Project.
And they set this up back in 2013.
So instead of calling it tree mail, they called it what?
The Urban Forest Visual Project.
I think they need some help with driving.
They set it up.
It was set up back in, I believe, 2013.
So it's been around for a long time and what ends up happening is very occasionally someone from a big newspaper or a big online magazine finds out about this.
And then they write an article and then people start flooding the trees with emails.
But how do they deliver the emails to the trees?
They print them out.
That's pretty messed up.
That's like sending to the tree.
Yeah.
That's like sending, like getting a ransom and sending someone their friends body part and writing the ransom notes on that one.
It's like getting a flamm of skin saying hello, I think your grade is not it.
Yeah.
If you all skip.
Well, but then that's isn't it like trying to heal a bruise by dropping some powdered you on it.
Yeah.
Like some mummies.
Yeah, you're right.
No, we don't always got through.
Yeah.
But yeah, so the idea is that you have this individual ID number and people do send them emails.
There's one that was, that says my dearest almost as I was leaving some Mary's college today.
I was struck not by a branch, but by your radiant beauty.
You must get these messages all the time.
You're such an attractive tree.
That's a bit creepy, though.
That's a bit odd, yeah.
If I got that email and they substituted tree for human, I think I'd be pretty creeped out actually.
And imagine how true that you be if you were literally rooted into the ground.
So you can't even run away.
That's a good point.
Can you get a restraining order as a tree?
Because I think they should invest in some of those.
Well, maybe they do.
Or maybe maybe the restraining order is against someone who's graffiti the tree.
Yeah.
Imagine if someone came up and wrote a letter on your body when you never even met them.
Imagine if someone tattooed into you that they liked somebody else.
[LAUGHTER]
Yeah.
I've got a tattoo on my shoulder saying, "Daddy, four ever, four ever."
But then also, you could go even further and say, "Imagine if someone took your body, pulped it up, added water, squashed it down,
and they got a pen and wrote a letter on you, and then sent it through the post."
Yeah, that'd be pretty creepy, doesn't it?
I'd be happy that I'd had a new life as a different form.
It's like being reincarnated, isn't it?
Every tree is reincarnated.
There's a book.
That you can look at it that way.
Well, I think that you get reincarnated as a corpse.
[LAUGHTER]
No, but I don't get used as a corpse.
I think you need to be used in order for it to be reincarnation, don't you?
If you were used today, I thought it was that you'd come back to life.
I thought that was the whole point, reincarnation.
Yeah, it is.
There is a use applied to the body.
Because if you donate your skeleton to medical science and they use it in classrooms and universities...
I've been reincarnated as a teaching assistant.
[LAUGHTER]
But these trees have been mainly getting non-helpful environmental emails and just love letters from people, haven't they?
They have, yeah.
Or really a self-involved letters.
So there was one thing that's supposed to be about the trees, but someone wrote Dear Greenleaf Elm.
I have exams coming up and I should be busy studying.
You do not have exams because you're a tree.
I don't think there's much more to talk about as we don't have a lot in common.
You being a tree in search.
But I'm glad we're in this together.
Cheers.
F, she signed off.
And then a few days later, another email came through.
Well, sorry, when she did F, do you think that's what she actually got in her exams?
[LAUGHTER]
Well, someone else did things that all the time.
Sorry.
She hadn't got the exam results yet, obviously, because she was still taking the exams.
But she did then send a follow-up saying, "Hello, Greenleaf Elm, it's me again," brackets F.
I just got my marks for last semester back on a definitely completely unrelated note.
How do you deal with the constant relentlessly-sold crushing pain of disappointment after disappointment
that characterizes our life on Earth?
You must be very old, right?
So I thought you might know.
Yeah.
So I think maybe she did get an F?
Yeah, that sounds like it.
Sounds like it.
For the figure.
Sorry.
Well, I just think she's got a very high opinion of herself.
If she thinks she's the only person in the world with an F as an initial.
[LAUGHTER]
Do you remember me?
F.
Yeah.
Probably the old person who's every email you about.
You're right.
These dreams are popular.
They do.
Or the popular.
Oh.
Yeah.
Come on.
That was strong.
They do write back sometimes.
To me.
Yeah.
So someone wrote, well, I'll refer you to the Guardian.
The Guardian wrote to Ginkgo Maiden, actually, in Fitzroy Gardens.
And it replied, saying, dear Oliver, thank you for your lovely words.
I am very well.
Enjoy your day.
You're sincerely three, one, four, four, one, seven, two, four.
Well, that is going against council regulations, actually,
because the guy who called Mr Woods, who's running this cafe.
Absolutely.
Yeah, that's true.
He's called Mr Woods.
That's great.
You got a problem with that?
No.
That's astonishing.
I wrote that down.
Didn't know.
Thank you.
So whenever you try to visit him in his office, you can't see him through all the trees.
So Mr Woods said that while these emails are highly amusing,
the team remains vigilant in making sure they only reply to authentic requests.
Oh, really?
Which I was like, that wasn't.
Because as you said, the whole point of this project was that it would be no cost to the council.
So they can't be wasting taxpayer's money spending their entire time replying to these males.
Well, that's true.
I've got an example here where someone wrote a Willow Leaf Peppermint tree.
ID1357982.
So hello, Mr Willow Leaf Peppermint.
Or should I say Mrs Willow Leaf Peppermint?
Do trees have genders?
Regardless.
The tree wrote back, selling, hello.
I am not a Mr or Mrs as I have what's called perfect flowers.
It includes both genders in my flower structure.
Kind regard, Mr and Mrs Willow Leaf Peppermint.
Right.
So they do send back stuff about education.
It's not the whole point of this, then. It's an educational tool.
No, I think maybe the replies will be, but it's genuinely for the fact that they want to use citizen reporters
for the maintenance of where.
So actually all is.
And most of the trees in Melbourne are going to die of old age over the next 20 years also, about 40%.
And so they need to replace them and maintain them on the ones they've got quite carefully.
So what you do is they have a map and it shows all the trees in Melbourne.
So if you're walking through Melbourne and you see a tree that's damaged and you click on the icon,
all it does is it sends an email to the council and the subject line is information about tree.
That's what I said.
And they're all the little icons are either red, amber or green, aren't they?
And the red ones are the ones that are going to die soon.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Because the Atlantic article I read about this story said that this is obviously ways for people to sort of get you invested
in things in your country or in your city that have problems in Hawaii.
They have tsunami sirens and they have an adoptive siren thing.
So you go to a map, you see where you live next to one.
Do you get a send a photo of it every Christmas?
Yeah, exactly the same.
Doing so well, still flashing.
Yeah, but you go, you test it and stuff.
You have to sort of be responsible to make sure that the maintenance of it is still okay.
I thought you didn't have to.
I looked on the website and said if you choose to, it's called adoptive thing.
Right.
And they say if you choose to adopt a thing, you're under no obligation and have no responsibility
to actually report problems with the thing.
Wait, so what are you doing for it?
I think you just give a bit of money.
Just give money, right?
You get to say, you get to say in parties I adopted a tsunami warning.
Yeah, it's pretty cool.
But the thing is, not if the place gets hit and you didn't give a warning.
That's true.
Yeah, then you're kind of...
Well, it's not that you have to give the warning.
I guess you're relying on the sirens.
It's not like a job smart way.
You go and stand on the coast looking worried.
The siren goes to the party.
What's your name?
Ah!
So, on an album of objects.
Yeah.
And sort of personifying them and getting into contact with them.
There has been a study done recently which shows that if you are lonely,
you're more likely to see an album of objects as being human-like.
Oh.
You'll start a Halloween question or whatever.
All right.
But these microphones really do very closely resemble a beautiful man.
I think. Don't you think?
Sure.
I think they're beautiful, man.
Is it that you're lonely so you make inanimate objects more human?
Or is it that you're the kind of person who makes inanimate objects human?
And so you're automatically a loner?
Well, I was asking my fridge about this the other day.
No, I think it's that if you don't have human relationships,
you're more likely to name your mugs.
But what I'm saying is it's possible that it's the other way around.
Well, that it's just self-perpetuating, I guess.
So once you do that, you get stuck in a cycle, don't you?
It's not what makes you don't need people anymore.
I mean, it is obviously a thing, isn't it?
We can cast away with Wilson, the volleyball.
Oh, yeah, remember?
Yes.
It's exactly like that.
If he had been there with 50 or 60 other people,
he probably wouldn't have done the volleyball thing.
That would have been, and then he would have been a real weirdo in that film
if he had painted the best of the volleyball.
But then, weirdly, he probably would have been outcast from the society
and then he would need it to sanitise the volleyball.
You're right.
I wonder what Teddy's for, because I'm very close to my Teddy's.
Maybe close to the name to most people,
but I don't think that counts me as that I can person.
Well, you wouldn't think that, would you?
But then people like me would think, yes, that is weird.
Well, I think you're weird.
For liking women.
Okay, so I guess we all have our own weird friend elections.
You don't need to get judgmental.
Well, my wife is definitely a real person.
Oh, you've thought that for years, haven't you?
It's time to break the news to you.
She's just a coat rack.
Yeah, that's a bit hard one.
I mean, she does wear coats very well.
Did you know that in 1800s, then, a lot of Americans lived in trees?
Did they?
Yeah, it's in three house trees.
No, inside trees.
Inside trees?
Yeah.
I'd say that's technically still a tree house.
Oh, yeah, it's true.
I suppose it is, but they need to rebrand themselves, actually.
Well, they did, and they call themselves "stomp houses".
Well, the houses didn't call themselves that.
They didn't call themselves anything.
They're just stomps.
Well, I actually think they have a bit of humanity to them.
Actually, they had, because they turned them into houses.
So, you know, houses look like a face,
because the windows at the top and then...
I don't know.
I can assume that, but then I'm not lonely.
Okay.
You've got your clothes right, haven't you?
Sorry about that, Paulina.
She doesn't listen.
She's not real.
So, in the 19th century, there was a lot of logging in America,
up in the northwest, up in Oregon and Washington, and then into Canada,
and people would leave the stumps of the trees that they were logging,
because they're not that useful, because the grains really aren't even in the stumps, I think.
And then, a lot of people were immigrating to these places at the same time,
and they would kind of turn the stumps into homes, because it was very cheap.
So, some people lived inside tree stumps, or they turned them into storage shed,
so they became chicken houses or pig pens.
Sometimes, they'd modify them and make them into dance floors apparently,
and they'd have stomp dances.
Yeah, could you get a big tree stump?
They'd flatten it out.
They are absolutely massive, aren't they?
Yeah.
Which trees are these?
They'll be like redwoods.
Yes, all right.
Clio's, they'll be really big here.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, ants farm in trees, and have been doing so for many thousands of years.
What do they farm?
But proper farming.
And proper cows.
Tractors and stuff.
Wow.
So, they plant, they farm fruit crops.
So, they farm different kinds of fruit, and basically they plant the seeds.
So, they'll be like a fungus or a fruit crop growing out of the slits and trees,
or the slits in bark, and they'll take that, and they'll plant it,
and insert it up further up the tree, and then they'll pull on it to fertilise it,
and then it grows, and it fruits.
Like farmers do.
Like farmers.
They always put them on their crops.
And as the plants grow, they form these big hollow structures that the ants live in,
so they're kind of turning their farm also into their farm house,
and they can eat it as well, and then when it creates more seeds,
and they take these seeds, and they go and plant them further up the tree,
and they have this permanently self-fulfilling farm that they run up trees.
It's very cool.
I do know a fact about farmers' bottoms.
Yeah, gone.
There used to be a thing where to test whether the ground was ready for you to plant your seeds,
you'd take down your trousers, and you'd put your bum on the ground,
and if it was too cold, then you wouldn't plant the seeds.
But if it's warm enough, then the ground was soft enough, and you could plant the seeds.
If only other bits of the body could scent temperature.
But it's a bit like kind of gauging the temperature of a child's bath by putting your elbow in.
It's exactly like that.
It's not exactly like that.
No, because you wouldn't gave the child the child the child's bath.
It's like when I dip my ass in my tea to save as warm enough.
I know, yak dog for me.
I brought my own.
I've just got one thing on emails.
There were team of scientists since South Carolina,
who did a test they went through two million emails in people's Yahoo inboxes.
Don't know how they got access to it.
I'm getting mad.
But they looked at the number of words that people sent through their emails per year,
and it equates to basically writing a book.
Everyone, if they use--
It's not a good book.
It's a terrible book.
But yeah, roughly 41,368 words is what they said that we...
That's a short book.
It's a short book.
It's a Mr. Man book.
That's not a Mr. Man book.
It's a bit longer than Mr. Man book.
So if you're not worth it.
Okay, it is time for fact number three, and that is James.
Okay, my fact this week is that the world's hottest chili is not meant to be eaten.
It's meant to be used as an aesthetic.
Mmm.
Is it like one of those fable things where it's like,
"Oh, my arm really hurts."
And then someone stamps on your foot and you're like...
It's actual-- it can numb you, basically.
It's incredibly, incredibly strong.
The idea is if you're allergic to normal anesthetics,
then you could maybe be able to use this kind of thing.
If you were to dentist, it would only anesthetize the small amount around your tooth.
Oh, wow.
So it wouldn't hit the muscles.
It would only be the pain receptors.
So it means that you wouldn't have that kind of thing where you can't talk properly.
Yeah, yeah.
Do they turn into a gas or--
Or is that what they're working on?
They're still working on it.
Right.
It would be a chemical, so I suppose they would inject it.
Yes.
So how is it?
Because obviously, usually what Charlie does is it ignites your pain receptors.
It's not even a taste capsicin.
Yeah.
Is something which makes you feel pain.
But yeah, this is numbing pain.
Yes.
Explain that, James.
I don't know exactly how that works.
But the way that capsacin works is there's a channel called TRPV1.
And that normally is a heat channel.
Oh, sorry.
Okay.
A lot of TV channels.
Not TV channels.
It's normally a heat channel, and the body is tricked into thinking that it's hot when actually it's kind of spicing.
Yeah.
It's so weird.
It's not hot at all.
No.
So this, uh, chili, ever.
Yes.
It's called Dragon's Breath.
It's called Dragon's Breath here.
And on this scale that they have called the Scoville scale, it scores 2.48 million, which is extremely high.
Yeah.
So what that means is because they do the scale by how much diluting it needs.
So if it's got 40 on the Scoville scale, if you dilute it 40 times, you will no longer be able to detect it.
If you've got one drop of this stuff and 40 drops of water, you can't taste anymore.
So this would need 2.48 million drops, and even then you could still just about taste it.
Wow.
And so it works out how much that is in natural water.
It's half a bath tub full of water.
Wow.
That's really one drop.
One drop into half a bath tub of water.
That's how much you would only just stop noticing.
That means we're effectively well like sharks.
Yes.
It does.
If there was an animal that had chili sauce instead of blood.
Yeah.
And it was bleeding and we were sweating a lot.
And we'd be able to detect them.
Wow.
And then attack them.
Does that mean if you drank one cup, let's say you put the chili into the water.
Yeah.
Does it go across the body of the water as if I got a cup full away from the bath and I drank it.
I think so.
Yeah.
I mean, maybe you'd have to.
You'd have to stir it around.
Yeah, if you stir it, it might start.
If you just put it in at that end, then it'd be quite easy.
Yeah.
It's a bit like homeopathic chili, this, isn't it?
It's amazing.
This is called Wilbur Scoville, who developed that.
Yes.
That's right.
You developed the scale, not the chili pepper.
Yeah.
So this is now officially according to Guinness World Records, the hottest chili in the world.
And it's taken it away from the previous World Record holder, which was called the Carolina Reaper.
And the Carolina Reaper held it for quite a long time.
It was developed and bred.
So I think some of these hottest chilies are all part of a breeding plan.
And so the, yeah, Carolina Reaper was made by a guy called Ed Curry.
No.
Yeah.
Curry developed it.
And they did a thing.
He did an anniversary eating of one.
They threw a celebration for it.
So he just ate one raw.
And his quote, as he was eating it, sort of started normal.
And then he started going bright red.
His face, they say, was blood red.
His eyes were watering.
His quote has a lot of dot, dot, dots.
So he got, I'm losing the ability to talk.
Wow.
That's his official quote from his anniversary of the Carolina Reaper.
It can make you lose, can't it?
Yeah.
Or it did.
There was a guy called Ian Rothwell, who in 2013 became the first person to eat a whole plate
of the world's hottest curry.
It's called The Widower.
The reason he did it, he's a doctor.
So maybe he shouldn't know better.
But the reason he did it was that he's a doctor.
Because he hated all of his underpants.
He didn't wear all of his underpants in one go.
I bet you I would.
Do you not take your underpants down when you go to the toilet there?
Absolutely not, don't be disgusting.
Do you want to ruin that toilet?
So this guy, his motivation was that his daughter, Alice, brought a boyfriend.
And the boyfriend told was relating this story about him and his friends had tried this curry.
And they couldn't get through more than a couple of bites.
And the dad was obviously trying to impress this boyfriend.
So it was like, I bet I can do that.
Oh, yeah.
And he did it.
And he actually said it was okay.
So he said, he had to take a short break halfway through because he felt really sweaty.
And he did start hallucinating.
And people told him he started to hallucinating.
Because he obviously can't remember it.
But aside from a few tears in his eyes and a short period of hallucinating,
he was cool and collected and seemed to cope very well.
I thought, was this not the guy who went for a walk halfway through and started weeping
and stuff like that, was that him?
He went for a walk halfway through because his eyes were watering.
But I don't think he was crying with sadness.
He was just crying.
He was probably crying with joy about how impressed it was.
I can kind of understand that because when I first met my father-in-law,
who's Russian, he basically, we ended up drinking a lot of vodka,
which was almost like an intensive vodka.
But did he say, I bet I could drink those three bottles of vodka.
You just wait, Sunny.
There was an implication there, I think, which was because in Russia and probably everywhere,
if you have a shot of vodka and you're doing it in a social way,
it's basically, I'm down in mind, you're down in yours kind of thing.
And then it's another one.
And then next thing I knew I was invading Ukraine.
You guys are so drunk, you're stuck.
Paulina, for a hat stand.
So the weird thing, right, is that birds don't have any problem-seating chillies.
The loads of chillies, often really hot ones, they're fine.
They don't panic, they don't lose hands, they don't lose hands.
They don't cry.
My son-in-law must be really impressed by that.
[laughter]
It's probably a bird one.
So birds hate it.
And birds find, but mammals hate them, right?
Yeah, yeah.
They do.
And obviously humans have developed the ability to think, well, actually I do quite like it.
But the theory is that the plants are using birds.
Because the birds, the seeds go through them really fast.
And the birds poo them out and they spread the seed.
And it spreads the plant.
Whereas mammals have digestive juices which destroy the seeds.
So the plant has developed seeds and, you know, little fibers and things.
Which, it's not all the key.
But birds don't.
Yeah.
And maybe humans, they do it so humans like it so that humans cultivate them.
I found a couple of spiciest foods and drinks that use chilli in them.
Yeah.
I found a bottle of vodka.
So they use a chilli, which is the Naga Yolokia chillies.
Have you heard of those?
I've heard of the Naga ones because that's from Naga and Indira, isn't it?
Right.
I think of the ones that, yes, I think they're from Asam and they were the hottest chilli until 2007.
Yeah.
And they're a genuine hottest chilli like they've been using cooking for hundreds of years.
Yes, exactly, yes.
So they use that in a vodka.
And they on the Scoville scale are 250,000.
So they're quite far down from your hottest hottest ones these days.
Which were in the millions, I believe?
Yeah.
It's quite interesting, actually, because it's been really good for Indian farmers.
Because they've got that books from the Guinness World Records.
And so, suddenly lots of people were ordering in.
It's quite expensive.
And also now they're using it in crowd control.
So they've started making the chilli into a spray.
And they also farmers use it to repel elephants.
Because elephants aren't birds, they're mammals, so they don't like it.
Right.
And so, actually, a lot of Asam scholars.
I once very not.
Yeah.
A elephant.
Dumbbell.
Oh, yeah.
I was wondering if he might like chilli.
God, who knows?
He's really on the cast business.
Because if you think about it, he could probably pollinate quite a lot of.
What?
Or you could spread seeds, couldn't he?
Very effectively.
Because they poo a lot, don't they?
Yeah, they do.
Oh, yeah.
So what Dumbbell was about him spreading chilli seeds?
I've not seen it, but yeah.
Yeah.
You've not seen Dumbbell.
Dumbbell.
Great.
Anyway, that's very cool.
So, yet, being used by the police?
Wow.
Yeah, because pepper spray is effectively chilli, isn't it?
Yeah.
But that bloke, that doctor trolling presses daughter's boyfriend.
Just wait till you see flies to India, gets involved in a riot.
Simon, are you watching?
Maybe if he got shot by an arrow by the Aztecs,
because they used to put chilli on the end of their arrows.
Oh, yeah.
I read that the Aztecs used to throw chilies at their enemies,
and I thought that can't possibly be right.
Apparently Japanese ninjas did.
To throw chilies, but chilli powder.
Yes.
Okay, that makes sense.
So if you're close up, might be.
A lot.
Because I thought it wouldn't be impossible to get the chilli into someone's mouth from a distance.
Yeah.
It's possible to throw a multiser into someone's mouth from a distance.
But don't they have to be compliant?
So you have to say to your enemy, it's just a multiser.
Before the battle, can we take part in a traditional ritual of see
if you can get the multiser into the enemy's mouth?
Okay, it's time for our final fact of the show.
And that is Andrew Hunter Murray.
My fact is that one of Napoleon's admirals lost three legs in battle.
Was he an animal?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sometimes people give naval ranks to animals.
He was a spider.
So he was still able to lead a full filling career.
He really noticed.
What a...
What's his story?
His name was Georges Ren Lepellet Lepletheu.
And he was a French Admiral.
And he lost his right leg at a battle.
And then he lost his wooden leg in another battle.
And then he lost his replacement wooden leg in another battle.
So, did you lose anything else?
No, I think it was very...
Imagine you're lucky.
That's like bowling.
Well, it's not lucky to lose your first leg.
No, the next two are lucky.
Yes, true.
And for a while, he spent his time sailing around in a ship called the Brilliant.
That's so cool.
That's awesome.
That is good.
That's very good.
I should say this fact was originally tweeted by Uncle Peter Campbell
and was sent in by Ryan Goodman.
So thank you to both of those guys.
Another person to lose their leg in the very same battle was Lord Uxbridge.
Quite famously lost it.
I think it's in Britain, so as I'm not...
I didn't grow up here.
I don't know if this is a famous encounter.
But when he was talking to the Duke Wellington,
as soon as...
And he lost it by Campbell as well.
There's a line where he says, "By God, sir, I've lost my leg."
And then the Duke Wellington says, "By God, sir, so you have."
And apparently that's a thing that's taught in schools here.
Did you guys...
Have you heard that before?
I've heard it before, but not in school.
It's not a school's thing.
It's just an example of great British...
British, yeah.
...restraint and stiff upper lip that blatantly didn't happen.
Exactly.
...in history.
And he actually did something that seemed to be quite common.
He buried his leg.
Or his leg was buried in the garden where it was cut off
and a little tombstone was erected, wasn't it?
Yeah.
And that seemed to be quite a common thing.
So a few people did this.
It's said that that's where the original inspiration for one foot in the grave came from.
Yeah, that's obviously not true.
Pretty sure that would be when you're in the grave,
both your feet are in there, so you're almost in there.
Yes.
But why...no, but you'd say both feet are in all my body and stuff in the grave.
Right.
When you are there.
So it makes sense to say one foot in the grave.
If it's if you buried your leg, yeah.
Yeah.
But then why not one leg in the grave?
That's a very good point.
Yeah.
I'll have a chat with myself about the original stuff.
Not later, but they did.
There wasn't things, so they got in a big row basically over the leg because the family who owned the house
where the leg had been left and buried made a little living from displaying it to people and choking the ramp.
And then, 60 years later, his son visited the house.
He thought I would visit my father's leg.
And he was horrified to discover supposedly that it was sticking out of the ground
because it had been unearthed by a stalker.
Wow.
A really bad name.
Like, foot up.
But I can't quite believe it.
You're kind of hoping it's a foot up, don't you?
Yeah.
Like, the foot at least would be.
That's true, isn't it?
It's closed.
And that's where the phrase one foot out of the grave originated from.
The sequel.
He said, right, I want that my father's leg back because he really made a hash of looking after it.
So I got it.
And they said, no, we want compensation.
And they didn't let him have it.
And there was a, you know, there was an am pass between them.
And then eventually, they just kept hold of it.
And then in 1932, supposedly, they burned it.
They burned it.
What?
They never get hold of it out of spite.
I don't know.
I don't think so because that was even like 60 years after, even the initial route.
Wow.
Which was 60 years after that.
But you're just burning bone, right?
Can you burn bone?
I don't know.
That's the story.
Do we know why they did that?
Like, as in, obviously, they were, I can see what we're saying.
They're doing grand gestures towards the legs.
But why did people bury their...
I think it was partly because it was to show how important they are and this thing is so vital.
And also because it was quite a mark of pride in the 19th century, I think,
during Civil War and the Revolutionary Wars, if you lost the leg, that showed you're really mad.
So it was more for veterans of war, as opposed to...
It was never a big thing.
Oh, okay.
It's just a handle, okay?
Yeah, because you were celebrating the end of your leg.
It's where the word "legend" comes from, legend.
Yeah.
That is true.
Is it?
Yeah, well, we'll leave you to work on that.
So a little bit of googling after this snow, I know, we...
Oh, I so believe it.
Do you know what...
So this is something that's very cool.
Do you know why flamingos are so stable on one leg?
Because you always see flamingos standing on one leg, don't you? Always.
Yeah, you do.
Yeah, so...
Is it because they're used to it?
No.
Oh, because you would think, because they do it all the time.
I mean, they are.
I'm sure they are used to it.
That's not the reason that they could...
Is it because they welded onto a platform?
Yeah, they're all law law law laws.
Yeah.
No.
No, it's not that.
It's not that.
Okay, I'll tell you.
So a couple of biologists, they're called Young Vuichang and Lena Tech.
They studied this just now, right?
And they were trying to work out one of the flamingos are so stable,
or rather, how are they so stable?
Yeah.
And they discovered this by writing to some zoos and doing experiments on flamingos.
And they would put them on a little plate, right?
And they'd measure the forces that the flamingos put down on the plate.
Yeah.
To see how it's adjusting.
And then they wrote to another zoo, which had just had a couple of flamingos which had died.
And they said, can we have your flamingos please?
And then they propped the flamingo up on one leg, this dead flamingo.
And they found that its leg locked perfectly, right?
Just on one leg.
And they're more stable on one leg than they are on two.
Oh.
Because when a flamingo stands on one leg, somehow all of its tendons slop right into place
and it can just stay like that for ages.
Why couldn't they lock both legs directly in place?
Yeah.
And then stand extended.
And this is the thing.
So what's the advantage in only standing on one leg?
Sometimes they're standing in cold water and they may not want to lose heat through both legs.
Isn't it, right?
Isn't it also that they don't want both feet to be frozen in ice?
Sometimes they get frozen in ice.
I've read that.
I've also read once that they said that they have it so that there's fewer legs for fish to bash into.
Yeah.
And there's just no one telling which of these is more or less plausible.
They're all very plausible.
Like, say if you're in a battle and there are cannonballs flying everywhere and you're standing on one leg the whole time,
then you're less likely to get your leg vulnerable.
Got it.
So it's not to stop the fish from hurting themselves.
It's to stop their legs getting hard.
Yeah, I think that's it.
Yeah.
Okay.
I believe that one.
Yes.
All right.
I've got one last thing on Cannonball war and so this is not about legs.
It's about hands.
There's a guy who was a knight in Germany in the 1500s called Gotts.
And we know them as Gotts of the Iron Hand.
Have I told you about this guy?
Yeah.
Gotts of the Iron Hand was this badass knight who's amazing.
And during battle, when he had originally both of his hands, there's two theories.
One that a cannonball sound freaked him out, chopped him slightly and he lost control of his massive sword.
And the sword went back and he chopped off his own hand.
The second theory.
Unlikely.
Unlikely, the second theory is that a cannonball took it off.
More likely.
Yes.
What happened is that they replaced his hand with a prosthetic hand which was made out of iron so he became Gotts of the Iron Hand.
Right.
And it had sort of joints in it so that the knuckles could hold the stirrup of the horse that he was riding them could hold around the sword.
And he was so famous that he published an autobiography and it was translated into a play by Gerta who wrote this whole play about Gotts of the Iron Hand,
which is still published in Germany, very famous. And there's a line in it which is thought to be either real or just Gerta was inspired by his sort of badass nature,
which is the most famous line in the whole play, which an English is translated as, "Tell him he can kiss my ass."
And that is still a slang put down in Germany today.
So it's still a slang put down in Germany.
As a direct derivative of Gotts of the Iron Hand.
Tell him he can kiss my ass.
So what is that we got kissed my ass from?
It doesn't feel like it. I can't believe it's not Gotta.
And the show.
Okay, that's it. That is all of our facts. Thank you so much for listening.
If you'd like to get in contact with any of us about the things that we have set over the course of this podcast,
we can be found on our Twitter account.
I'm on @tribaland. James.
@egshaped.
Andy.
And Chazinski.
You can email podcasts@QI.com.
Yeah, or you can go to our group account, which is @QIPodcast.
Or you can go to no such thing as a fish.com, which is our website.
It has all of our previous episodes on there.
It's also got a link to our book, which is coming out November 2nd, called The Book of the Year.
It's also got links to our tour, which is going through October and November in the UK.
That's all from us now. We'll see you again next week. Good bye.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
(upbeat music)